And then I was sent away to school and there I met the assistant organist who was a sadist,
a top quality sadist.
And he had a very interesting way of encouraging you not to make mistakes.
He had a large ebony ruler which was like a stick of rock, big, about 14 inches, inch
thick in diameter.
If you made a mistake, tap.
Next mistake, tap, tap, harder.
And then you're starting to think, oh, let me not make mistakes.
And then you made more.
And one day he went crazy and smashed the hell out of me.
I was bleeding.
He didn't put my eye out but it was terrible, unbelievable.
I ran away from the school.
I ran to the station.
I just jumped on a train.
I wanted to get away.
This was in the evening.
I had, you know, I just had nothing else.
And the train took me, to my amazement, to Cardiff where it finished.
Here for Cardiff.
And I was very, very ill.
I had what they would call in those days a major nervous breakdown.
I was put in St. David's Hospital and that was really a dreadful time for me.
I was then about 14.
And that was the end of my first period of life.